>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27:
HILLARY CLINTON WINS BIG IN THE
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY IN SOUTH
CAROLINA; A CEASE FIRE BROKERED
BY THE U.S. TAKES EFFECT IN
SYRIA'S LONG CIVIL WAR; AND, IN
OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, WHY SOME
IRANIAN-AMERICANS FEAR THEY
COULD BE IN VIOLATION OF
SANCTIONS AGAINST IRAN.
>> THE PROBLEM HERE IS, THE LAWS
ARE SO COMPLEX.
IT IS A SPIDER'S WEB OF LAWS.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT, ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE
HILLARY CLINTON HAS WON THE
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY
IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS PROJECTS
WHEN ALL THE VOTES ARE COUNTED
CLINTON WILL EASILY DEFEAT
VERMONT SENATOR BERNIE SANDERS.
EXIT POLLS SHOW BLACK VOTERS
MADE UP 60% OF TODAY'S
DEMOCRATIC ELECTORATE, AND 84%
OF THEM VOTED FOR CLINTON.
TONIGHT IS HER THIRD WIN IN THE
FIRST FOUR CONTESTS, INCLUDING
NEVADA AND IOWA.
SANDERS WON ONLY IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE.
>> TODAY YOU SENT A MESSAGE IN
AMERICA WHEN WE STAND
TOGETHER --
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
-- WHEN WE STAND TOGETHER, THERE
IS NO BARRIER TOO BIG TO BREAK!
>> Sreenivasan: BEFORE TONIGHT,
CLINTON HAD A BIG ADVANTAGE OVER
SANDERS IN SO-CALLED
SUPERDELEGATES, 453-20.
THESE ARE PARTY OFFICIALS WHO
GET TO VOTE ON THE NOMINEE.
TONIGHT, SHE WILL WIN AT LEAST
31 OF THE 50 DELEGATES TO BE
APPORTIONED FOR THE DEMOCRATIC
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
A CANDIDATE NEEDS THE "MAGIC
NUMBER" OF 2,383 DELEGATES TO
WIN THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINATION.
AFTER SOUTH CAROLINA, CLINTON'S
LEAD OVER SANDERS WILL BE AROUND
450 DELEGATES.
EARLIER TODAY, CLINTON WAS
CAMPAIGNING IN ALABAMA, ONE OF
THE DOZEN STATES HOLDING
CONTESTS ON TUESDAY.
SEVEN OF TUESDAY'S CONTESTS ARE
IN THE SOUTH.
SANDERS, AS WELL AS THE
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES, CAMPAIGNED ACROSS
THESE SAME STATES TODAY--
IMPORTANT BECAUSE NEARLY A
QUARTER OF BOTH PARTIES'
DELEGATES TO THIS SUMMER'S
NOMINATING CONVENTIONS WILL BE
UP FOR GRABS IN JUST THREE DAYS.
"POLITICO" REPORTER ANNIE KARNI
IS COVERING THE SOUTH CAROLINA
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY, AND SHE
JOINS ME NOW BY PHONE FROM
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA.
SO, ANNIE, BIG WIN FOR HILLARY
TONIGHT.
>> BIG WIN.
THEY CALLED THE RACE PRETTY MUCH
AT THE SECOND THE POLLS CLOSED.
THERE WAS NO CHANCE AT ALL
BERNIE WOULD TAKE THIS.
HUGE ONE FOR HILLARY.
>> Sreenivasan: SHE DIDN'T
EVEN SPEND MOST OF THE DAY
CAMPAIGNING IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
SHE'S KIND OF MOVED ON.
>> SHE POPPED OUT IN ALABAMA AND
THEN AFTER THIS.
THEY KNEW THE RACE WAS OVER.
THEY'VE DONE A LOT OF HARD WORK.
THEY SPENT MORE TIME THAN BERN
IN IN THE PAST FEW DAYS.
HILLARY CLINTON AND BILL CLINTON
HAVE BEEN HERE SINCE WEDNESDAY
NIGHT, THURSDAY MORNING, AND
BERNIE HAS BEEN MAKING TRIPS TO
OKLAHOMA AND OTHER SUPER TUESDAY
STATES WHERE HE THINKS HE HAS A
SHOP.
HE KIND OF SEEMS TO HAVE GIVEN
UP A LITTLE ON SOUTH CAROLINA
EARLIER.
>> Sreenivasan: WHY HAVE THE
CLINTONS FOCUSED SO HEAVILY ON
THIS AND WHAT DO THEY HOPE TO
TAKE WITH THEM TO THE NEXT SET
OF STATES AFTER THIS WIN?
>> WHAT'S SIGNIFICANT ABOUT THIS
WIN IS IT SHOWS HE HAS NOT MADE
THE INROADS WITH THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN VOTERS HE WOULD
NEED TO DO WELL ON SUPER
TUESDAY.
THE EXIT POLLS SHOWED SHE BEAT
HIM 5-1, AFRICAN-AMERICAN
VOTERS.
THEN WE'RE GOING INTO GEORGIA
AND ARKANSAS AND TENNESSEE AND A
LOT OF SOUTHERN STATES WITH A
SIMILAR POPULATION TO
SOUTH CAROLINA WHERE HE HAS
SPENT MUCH MONEY AND LESS TIME
AND DOESN'T LOOK GOOD FOR HIM TO
BE ABLE TO COMPETE WELL THERE.
SO THIS IS KIND OF A PRECURSOR
TO WHAT CLINTON OPERATORS ARE
TELLING ME NOW IS THEY THINK THE
MATH WILL NOT ADD UP FOR HIM,
EVEN IF HE WINS THE FIVE STATES
HE THINKS HE CAN WIN ON SUPER
TUESDAY, WHICH IS COLORADO,
OKLAHOMA, MINNESOTA,
MASSACHUSETTS AND HIS HOME STATE
OF VERMONT, EVEN IF HE WINS
THOSE, THEY STILL EXPECT TO COME
OUT OF TUESDAY WITH A
50-DELEGATE LEAD AND THEY DON'T
THINK HE WILL EVER CATCH UP
AGAIN.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE
ANYTHING SHE DID ON THE CAMPAIGN
TRAIL IN TERMS OF CHANGING OR
REFINING HER MESSAGE?
>> WELL, WHAT HAPPENED HERE, IT
WAS ACTUALLY INTERESTING TO
WATCH, THE SCRIPT WAS FLIPPED IN
HER FAVOR FOR THE FIRST TIME.
HERE AMONG OLDER
AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMEN VOTERS,
SHE'S SEEN AS THE AUTHENTIC
CANDIDATE WHO HAS BEEN FIGHTING
FOR CIVIL RIGHTS HER ENTIRE
LIFE, WHO HAD BARACK OBAMA'S
BACK THE LAST EIGHT YEARS.
BERNIE SANDERS, THEY DON'T KNOW.
THEY LOOK AT HIS IDEAS WITH
SKEPTICISM, SO IT'S UP TO HIM TO
CONVINCE THEM HE'S AUTHENTIC AND
THAT SHE COMES ACROSS AS SORT OF
THE RACE SHE'S WANTED TO RUN HER
WHOLE LIFE HERE, SHE'S SEEN AS
AN AUTHENTIC, STRONG LEADER, AND
THESE VOTERS HERE TALKED ABOUT
HOW THEY FEEL LIKE THEY HAVE A
DUTY TO SUPPORT HER.
ALL THE EMBRACING OF BARACK
OBAMA SHE'S DONE, IT REALLY
RESONATED HERE WHERE THESE
VOTERS FEEL LIKE SHE SUPPORTED
HIM AND NOW THEY OWE HER.
>> Sreenivasan: ANNIE KARNI,
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: IRAN IS COUNTING
THE VOTES IN ITS FIRST NATIONAL
ELECTION SINCE AGREEING TO ITS
NUCLEAR DISARMAMENT DEAL WITH
THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER
WORLD POWERS.
60% OF IRAN'S 55 MILLION
ELIGIBLE VOTERS TURNED OUT TO
VOTE IN YESTERDAY'S ELECTION FOR
CONTROL OF IRAN'S 290-SEAT
PARLIAMENT AND A SEPARATE 88-
SEAT ASSEMBLY THAT PICKS THE
COUNTRY'S SUPREME RELIGIOUS
LEADER.
MANY OF THE VOTERS WERE UNDER 30
YEARS OLD.
EARLY, PARTIAL RESULTS WERE GOOD
FOR INCUMBENT IRANIAN PRESIDENT
HASSAN ROUHANI, WHO CHAMPIONED
THE NUCLEAR DEAL AND IS
SUPPORTED BY PARTIES CONSIDERED
MODERATE AND REFORMIST.
OBSERVERS SAY EVEN IF THE
MODERATES AND REFORMISTS FALL
SHORT OF A MAJORITY, THEY'RE
EXPECTED TO WIN THEIR BIGGEST
VOICE EVER IN IRAN'S PARLIAMENT.
GUNS ARE MOSTLY SILENT ON THIS
FIRST DAY OF AN AMBITIOUS
CEASE FIRE ATTEMPT IN
SYRIA'S FIVE-YEAR CIVIL WAR.
EXCEPT FOR SCATTERED VIOLATIONS,
THE TRUCE BROKERED BY THE U.S.
AND RUSSIA APPEARED TO BE
HOLDING TODAY.
IT COVERS THE FORCES OF SYRIAN
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD AND
ALMOST 100 OPPOSITION FACTIONS,
BUT SPECIFICALLY EXCLUDES
MILITANTS OF THE ISLAMIC STATE
GROUP, OR ISIS, AND THE NUSRA
FRONT, AL QAEDA'S BRANCH IN
SYRIA.
ISIS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR
SUICIDE BOMBINGS IN THE CENTRAL
SYRIAN CITY OF HAMA.
SYRIAN STATE MEDIA SAID SIX
PEOPLE WERE KILLED THERE.
IN OTHER AREAS, THE RELATIVE
CALM CAME AS RELIEF TO MOST
SYRIANS, INCLUDING THIS WOMAN IN
SYRIA'S CAPITAL OF DAMASCUS.
>> (translated): TODAY WE WOKE
UP AND IT WAS CALM, STABLE.
AND EVEN IN THE STREET, I WENT
FROM ONE PLACE TO ANOTHER AND IT
WAS COMPLETELY CALM.
PEOPLE FEEL COMFORTABLE AND
OPTIMISTIC OF A SETTLEMENT IN
SYRIA, AND OPTIMISTIC FOR THE
WELFARE OF SYRIA.
>> Sreenivasan: RUSSIA HAS
GROUNDED ITS AIRPLANES THAT HAD
BEEN CARRYING OUT AIR STRIKES
SINCE LAST SEPTEMBER TO BOLSTER
THE ASSAD REGIME.
IF THE CEASE FIRE HOLDS, THE
UNITED NATIONS ENVOY TO SYRIA
SAYS HE PLANS TO RESTART PEACE
TALKS IN GENEVA IN TEN DAYS.
THE WAR HAS KILLED SEVERAL
HUNDRED THOUSAND SYRIANS,
DISPLACED MILLIONS AND SPARKED
EUROPE'S REFUGEES CRISIS.
MACEDONIA SAYS IT WILL NOW ADMIT
ASYLUM SEEKERS FROM SYRIA AND
IRAQ WHO ARE HEADED FOR POINTS
IN NORTHERN AND WESTERN EUROPE.
REFUGEES HAD PROTESTED
MACEDONIA'S CLOSURE TWO DAYS AGO
OF ITS BORDER WITH GREECE, WHICH
REMAINS THE PRIMARY ENTRY POINT
TO EUROPE FOR PEOPLE FLEEING THE
MIDDLE EAST CONFLICTS.
TODAY, MACEDONIA RELENTED AND
SAID IT WOULD ALLOW AT LEAST 300
REFUGEES TO ENTER.
THE U.N. REFUGEE AGENCY SAYS
5,000 REFUGEES AND MIGRANTS
REMAIN CROWDED IN A NEARBY
REFUGEE CAMP IN GREECE.
MACEDONIA SAID IT HAD
TEMPORARILY CLOSED ITS BORDER
BECAUSE OF BOTTLENECKS FARTHER
UP THE EUROPEAN MIGRANT ROUTE.
AMONG THE REFUGEES WHO HAVE MADE
IT TO WESTERN EUROPE, SEVERAL
THOUSAND ARE LIVING IN CALAIS,
FRANCE, IN AN OUTDOOR CAMP
THAT'S BECOME KNOWN AS THE
"JUNGLE."
IN THIS GROUP ARE SOME AFGHAN
MEN WHO SERVED AS TRANSLATORS
WITH BRITISH AND U.S. MILITARY
FORCES IN AFGHANISTAN, AND THOSE
TRANSLATORS HOPE TO LEAVE
CALAIS-- THE ENTRANCE TO THE
ENGLISH CHANNEL TUNNEL-- TO
PURSUE POLITICAL ASYLUM IN
BRITAIN.
ITN CHANNEL 4 NEWS REPORTER ALEX
THOMPSON HAS MORE.
>> Reporter: THE JUNGLE MIXES
ALL SORTS; THERE ARE ECONOMIC
MIGRANTS HERE, THERE ARE GENUINE
REFUGEES.
AND THERE ARE AFGHAN MEN WHO
SERVED, RISKED THEIR LIVES
WORKING FOR YEARS WITH THE
BRITISH ARMY AS TRANSLATORS.
>> I WAS WORKING IN THE BIG
BRITISH CAMP AND ALL OVER
AFGHANISTAN FOR THE BRITISH
FORCES.
AND THERE, WE MET PRINCE HARRY.
WE MET DAVID CAMERON.
>> Reporter: EVEN BACK THEN,
INTERPRETERS COULD NEVER BE
IDENTIFIED.
WORKING WITH THE FOREIGN
OCCUPYING ARMIES MADE THEM
TARGETS THEN, AND THEY'RE
TARGETS NOW.
>> I'VE BEEN ATTACKED MANY TIMES
BY, LIKE, MY RELATED ATTACKED ME
BECAUSE SOME OF THEM LOST THEIR
FAMILIES ON AIR STRIKE OR
SOMETHING.
>> I COULDN'T STAY ANY LONGER IN
AFGHANISTAN BECAUSE OF THE BAD
SECURITY AND BECAUSE I'VE BEEN
THREATENED FROM THE TALIBAN
SIDE.
SO I MADE MY WAY TO HERE.
>> Reporter: RHETA MORAN RUNS A
MANCHESTER-BASED GROUP WORKING
IN THE JUNGLE TRYING TO GET
THESE MEN INTO THE U.K.
SHE SAYS THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT
OWES THEM A DUTY OF CARE.
>> THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT HAS
ROBBED THESE YOUNG MEN OF THEIR
LIVES, ACTUALLY, AND ROBBED
THEIR FAMILIES OF THEIR LIVES.
>> Reporter: BOTH MEN PROVIDED
US WITH PICTURES OF THEIR DAYS
WITH BRITISH, U.S. AND OTHER
NATO FORCES,
TOGETHER WITH NUMEROUS LETTERS
OF COMMENDATION FROM BRITISH AND
AMERICAN REGIMENTS.
WHEN CHANNEL 4 NEWS WAS ON
PATROL WITH THE BRITISH ARMY IN
HELMUND IN AFGHANISTAN, WE KNEW
WE'D BE AMBUSHED.
IT WAS THE INTERPRETER WHO HAD
BEEN LISTENING TO THE TALIBAN
RADIO.
WHEN CHANNEL 4 NEWS WAS AMBUSHED
IN A DITCH IN HELMUND, ONE OF
THE MEN JUST IN FRONT OF US IS
THE INTERPRETER.
>> TWO MEN IN PARTICULAR THAT
WE'RE WORKING WITH WERE SERVING
WITH THE BRITISH FORCE BETWEEN
2009 AND 2013.
THEY FLED FROM AFGHANISTAN LAST
SUMMER.
>> Reporter: ONE HAD TRIED THE
OFFICIAL ROUTE VIA THE BRITISH
EMBASSY IN KABUL BUT HAD GOT
NOWHERE.
>> I'VE BEEN MANY TIMES TO THE
BRITISH EMBASSY.
THEY TOLD ME TO WAIT BECAUSE
THERE WAS A PROCESS THAT THEY'RE
TAKING INTERPRETERS FROM
AFGHANISTAN TO U.K.
YOU HAVE TO WAIT.
YOU HAVE TO WAIT LONGER.
I COULDN'T WAIT LONGER, SO
THAT'S WHY I LEFT.
BECAUSE IT WAS DANGER FOR MY
LIFE.
>> Reporter: THAT'S WHY ALMOST
ANY HARDSHIP IS WORTH IT, TO GET
TO BE EVEN HERE IN THESE
CONDITIONS.
>> IT TOOK US ABOUT MORE THAN 45
DAYS TO GET HERE.
SO IT WAS A LONG JOURNEY FOR US.
>> Reporter: SCORES OF YOUNG
MEN WHO RISKED THEIR LIVES FOR
BRITAIN ARE NOW STUCK ACROSS
EUROPE IN VARIOUS DEGREES OF
MISERY.
GOING TO THE U.K. FOR THEM IS
ILLEGAL.
GOING HOME, THEY SAY, SUICIDAL.
ALEX THOMPSON, CHANNEL 4 NEWS AT
THE JUNGLE CAMP IN CALAIS.
>> Sreenivasan: EVER SINCE THE
1979 HOSTAGE TAKING OF 52
AMERICANS AT THE U.S. EMBASSY IN
IRAN, SIX AMERICAN PRESIDENTS
HAVE ENFORCED RESTRICTIONS ON
FINANCIAL AND COMMERCIAL
ACTIVITY WITH IRAN.
ONGOING SANCTIONS-- EASED ONLY
RECENTLY WITH IRAN'S NUCLEAR
DISARMAMENT DEAL-- HAVE BEEN
IMPOSED TO PRESSURE IRAN TO
CHANGE ITS ACTIVITIES RELATED TO
ITS BALLISTIC MISSILE PROGRAM,
SUPPORT OF TERRORIST GROUPS AND
OTHER DESTABILIZING ACTIVITIES
IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
HOWEVER EFFECTIVE THE SANCTIONS
MAY HAVE BEEN ON IRAN, ENFORCING
THEM HAS SOMETIMES BROUGHT HARSH
CONSEQUENCES FOR PEOPLE LIVING
HERE IN THE U.S.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
THE NEWSHOUR'S IVETTE FELICIANO
TAKES A CLOSER LOOK.
>> Reporter: U.S. RELATIONS WITH
IRAN ARE SYMBOLIZED BY THESE
CLOSED DOORS TO THE IRANIAN
EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON,
REFLECTING MORE THAN THREE
DECADES OF SEVERED DIPLOMATIC
AND ECONOMIC TIES.
SANCTIONS RESTRICTING
INTERACTIONS WITH IRAN NOT ONLY
PUT PRESSURE ON IRAN'S
GOVERNMENT, THEY ALSO POSE
ROADBLOCKS AND SOMETIMES LEGAL
TROUBLE FOR MANY IRANIAN-
AMERICANS LIVING HERE.
>> A DOZEN AGENTS STORMED INTO
MY APARTMENT, THEY SLAMMED ME
AGAINST THE WALL, AND THEY
HANDCUFFED ME IN MY UNDERWEAR.
AND THEN THEY JUST TOOK ME AWAY.
>> Reporter: WHEN F.B.I. AGENTS
ARRESTED MAHMOUD REZA BANKI AT
HIS MANHATTAN APARTMENT IN 2010,
HE THOUGHT IT WAS A MISTAKE.
A NATURALIZED AMERICAN CITIZEN,
HE EMIGRATED TO THE U.S. IN 1994
AT THE AGE OF 18 TO ATTEND
COLLEGE.
HE THEN EARNED A DOCTORATE IN
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING AT
PRINCETON AND WORKED FOR THE
CONSULTING FIRM McKINSEY AND
COMPANY.
>> I WENT FROM BEING AN ORDINARY
CITIZEN WITH A SHOT AT THE
AMERICAN DREAM, SLEEPING IN MY
BED, IN MY HOME, TO A MAXIMUM
SECURITY CELL IN AN ORANGE
JUMPER.
>> Reporter: FEDERAL PROSECUTORS
SAID BANKI ILLEGALLY RECEIVED
MORE THAN $3 MILLION OVER THREE
YEARS FROM HIS FAMILY IN IRAN
AND THAT HE POSED A FLIGHT RISK,
WHICH PERSUADED A JUDGE TO DENY
HIM BAIL.
>> THIS NOTION OF INNOCENT UNTIL
PROVEN GUILTY, I NEVER FELT THAT
WAY.
>> Reporter: TO A LOT OF PEOPLE
WATCHING THIS SHOW, $3.4 MILLION
IS GOING TO SOUND LIKE A LOT OF
MONEY.
WHAT DO YOUR PARENTS DO IN
IRAN?
HOW DID YOU COME INTO THAT
MONEY?
>> IT WAS BASICALLY MONEY THAT
MY PARENTS HAD SAVED UP OVER THE
YEARS AND HAD INVESTED IN MY
UNCLE'S COMPANY.
>> Reporter: THE UNCLE WHO OWNED
THREE POWER COMPANIES AND A
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY.
PROSECUTORS ACCUSED BANKI OF
VIOLATING SANCTIONS BY RUNNING
AN UNLICENSED MONEY TRANSFER
BUSINESS.
BECAUSE OF STRICT BANKING
REGULATIONS UNDER SANCTIONS, HIS
FAMILY HAD USED A MONEY TRANSFER
SYSTEM CALLED A "HAWALA,"
POPULAR IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND
SOUTH ASIA AND LEGAL UNDER U.S.
SANCTIONS.
CASH DOESN'T CROSS BORDERS BUT
IS GIVEN TO A BROKER IN ONE
COUNTRY, WHO CONTACTS A BROKER
IN ANOTHER, WHO GIVES A MATCHING
AMOUNT TO THE INTENDED
RECIPIENT.
BOTH BROKERS KEEP A TALLY ON WHO
OWES WHAT AND SETTLE THE DEBT IN
FUTURE TRANSACTIONS.
BANKI ADMITS THE FAMILY USED THE
HAWALA SYSTEM TO SEND HIM THE
FUNDS, AND HE REPORTED THE MONEY
ON HIS TAX RETURNS.
BUT HE DENIED OPERATING AS AN
UNLICENSED MONEY BROKER, AS HE
WAS CHARGED.
AT TRIAL, A JURY FOUND BANKI
GUILTY OF CONSPIRING TO VIOLATE
SANCTIONS AND MAKING FALSE
STATEMENTS.
AFTER SPENDING 11 MONTHS IN
JAIL PRE-TRIAL, BANKI WAS
SENTENCED TO 30 MORE MONTHS IN
PRISON.
>> FIRST, YOU NEED TO UNDERSTAND
THAT IT'S NOT ILLEGAL TO RECEIVE
MONEY FROM A FAMILY MEMBER IN
THE UNITED STATES.
THE TYPE OF ACTIVITY HE ENGAGED
IN IS EXTREMELY COMMON.
>> Reporter: ATTORNEY ERICH
FERRARI DIDN'T REPRESENT BANKI
BUT HAS REPRESENTED DOZENS OF
OTHER INDIVIDUALS AND COMPANIES
INVESTIGATED FOR VIOLATING U.S.
SANCTIONS ON IRAN.
AFTER BANKI WAS CONVICTED,
FERRARI WAS FLOODED WITH CALLS
FROM WORRIED IRANIAN-AMERICANS.
>> SO THIS IS WHERE IT GETS
REALLY, REALLY TRICKY.
THERE'S A CAVEAT THERE, THAT
THERE CAN BE NO DEBITING OR
CREDITING OF IRANIAN ACCOUNTS BY
A U.S. BANK.
SO, PEOPLE WHO ARE ENGAGED IN
THESE KIND OF INNOCUOUS,
EVERYDAY TRANSACTIONS HAVE TO GO
THROUGH THESE OTHER ROUTES.
AND THE OTHER ROUTES INVOLVE
MONEY EXCHANGERS, HAWALA
BROKERS.
AND REALLY A LOT OF THESE
INVESTIGATIONS ARE CENTERED ON
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE THE ONES
PROVIDING THE MONEY, MAKING
DEPOSITS, AS OPPOSED TO THE
BENEFICIARIES.
BUT THE BENEFICIARIES OFTENTIMES
GET CAUGHT UP IN THE
INVESTIGATIONS AND COME UNDER
ADDITIONAL SCRUTINY AS A RESULT.
>> Reporter: WHILE REZA BANKI
WAS IN PRISON, A FEDERAL APPEALS
COURT RULED HIS TRIAL JURY WAS
NOT PROPERLY INSTRUCTED ABOUT
SOME OF THE REGULATIONS, WHICH
IT CALLED "AMBIGUOUS," AND
TOSSED OUT PARTS OF HIS
CONVICTION, LEADING TO HIS EARLY
RELEASE IN 2011.
BANKI'S CASE IS JUST ONE EXAMPLE
OF HOW COMPLICATED THE SANCTIONS
AGAINST IRAN CAN BE.
FOR INSTANCE, YOU CAN SELL
PROPERTY IN IRAN THAT YOU
INHERITED FROM SOMEONE WHO DIED,
BUT YOU CAN'T SELL A PROPERTY
THAT SOMEONE WHO IS ALIVE GAVE
YOU AS A GIFT.
OR, IT'S LEGAL FOR AN AMERICAN
TO SELL CERTAIN ITEMS TO AN
IRANIAN COMPANY, BUT BROKERING
THE SALE ON BEHALF OF AN IRANIAN
COMPANY IS PROHIBITED,
CONSIDERED TO BE EXPORTING A
SERVICE TO IRAN.
>> I THINK ONE OF THE ISSUES
THERE IS THAT THE IRANIAN-
AMERICAN COMMUNITY DOESN'T
UNDERSTAND THE SANCTIONS IN THAT
LEVEL OF DETAIL.
>> Reporter: FERRARI POINTS TO
THE CASE OF A CANCER RESEARCHER
CURRENTLY FACING PROSECUTION FOR
ATTEMPTING TO SHIP A SANCTIONS-
PERMITTED MEDICAL DEVICE TO AN
IRANIAN HOSPITAL WITHOUT FIRST
OBTAINING A LICENSE TO DO SO.
>> THEY'RE NOT GETTING INTO THE
WEEDS OF EVERY LEGAL PROGRAM, TO
UNDERSTAND THE INS AND OUTS OF
IT.
THEY JUST HEAR SOMETHING, OKAY,
MEDICAL DEVICES ARE AUTHORIZED.
YOU CAN SELL YOUR PROPERTY IN
IRAN.
YOU CAN SELL FOOD TO IRAN.
THINGS OF THAT NATURE.
>> Reporter: SINCE THE 1980s,
SANCTIONS AGAINST IRAN HAVE
STRETCHED INTO HUNDREDS OF PAGES
OF LAWS, EXECUTIVE ORDERS AND
REGULATIONS, WITH ABOUT A DOZEN
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES INVOLVED IN
ENFORCEMENT.
RICHARD NEPHEW HELPED STRENGTHEN
SANCTIONS FOR THE U.S. STATE
DEPARTMENT DURING THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION AND IS NOW
TEACHING AT COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY'S CENTER ON GLOBAL
ENERGY POLICY.
>> SANCTIONS ARE ONLY AS GOOD AS
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL FEAR THEY
CREATE IN PEOPLE ENGAGED IN
ILLICIT CONDUCT.
YOU WANT THEM TO BE AFRAID OF
BREAKING THE RULES.
>> Reporter: NEPHEW CREDITS
SANCTIONS FOR PUSHING IRAN TO
AGREE TO THE NUCLEAR DISARMAMENT
DEAL IMPLEMENTED IN JANUARY.
>> IF WE HADN'T GONE THROUGH THE
SANCTIONS REGIME THAT WE HAD, I
DON'T THINK THE IRANIANS WOULD
FEAR THE RE-IMPOSITION OF
SANCTIONS IF THEY CHEAT.
I WOULD JUST HAVE TO ASK THE
QUESTION, WOULD LIFE BE MUCH
BETTER IF IRAN HAD NUCLEAR
WEAPONS THAN IF NOT?
AND WHAT IS THE TRADEOFF YOU'RE
PREPARED TO TAKE IN EXCHANGE
FOR NOT HAVING IRAN POSSESS
NUCLEAR WEAPONS?
>> Reporter: DOES IT MAKE US
SAFER TO HAVE SOMEBODY IN PRISON
BECAUSE THEY WERE RECEIVING
FUNDS FROM FAMILY BACK IN IRAN?
>> OBVIOUSLY, WE CAN FIND CASES
WHERE WE WENT TOO FAR AND WHEN
THERE WAS CRIMINAL JUSTICE, YOU
KNOW, PROCEEDINGS STARTED
AGAINST SOMEBODY WHO WASN'T
DOING ANYTHING WRONG.
THERE ARE ALSO CASES IN WHICH
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO GET
ACCESS TO FINANCING, GET ACCESS
TO MONEY FROM ILLICIT SOURCES,
AND BE ABLE TO DO HARM WITH
THAT.
I THINK ULTIMATELY THIS IS JUST
A TENSION THAT EXISTS WHEN
YOU'RE TRYING TO REMAIN OPEN AND
ACCESSIBLE AND PERMITTING THESE
KINDS OF PEOPLE-TO-PEOPLE
INTERACTIONS WHILE AT THE SAME
TIME SAFEGUARDING YOUR OWN
SECURITY.
>> Reporter: THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT HANDLES ALL CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS OF SANCTIONS
VIOLATIONS, MOSTLY AGAINST
INDIVIDUALS.
A SPOKESMAN TOLD THE NEWSHOUR:
"OUR PRIORITY IS TO FOCUS ON
VIOLATIONS THAT POSE THE
GREATEST THREAT TO THE NATIONAL
SECURITY," SUCH AS "ANY GOODS
OR SERVICES RELATING TO WEAPONS
OF MASS DESTRUCTION OR MISSILE
TECHNOLOGY."
HE WENT ON TO SAY:
"THAT THE U.S. CRIMINALLY
PROSECUTES IRAN'S PROCUREMENT
AGENTS HAS HAD A CHILLING EFFECT
ON THEIR CONDUCT AND SHUTS DOWN
A CHANNEL FOR IRAN TO OBTAIN
RESTRICTED COMMODITIES."
THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT'S OFFICE
OF FOREIGN ASSETS CONTROL, OR
OFAC, HANDLES CIVIL
VIOLATIONS OF IRAN SANCTIONS,
AND, SINCE NOVEMBER OF 2013, HAS
IMPOSED FINES TOTALING NEARLY
$530 MILLION IN 28 CASES, ALL
BUT ONE AGAINST COMPANIES OR
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS FOR
PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY.
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO KNOW HOW MANY
PEOPLE ARE INVESTIGATED BECAUSE
THE GOVERNMENT DOES NOT MAKE
THOSE NUMBERS PUBLIC.
BUT SOME IRANIAN-AMERICANS SAY
SANCTIONS ENFORCEMENT
INTENSIFIES SCRUTINY ON THEM
NOT ONLY BY THE GOVERNMENT, BUT
ALSO BY INSTITUTIONS LIKE BANKS
AND UNIVERSITIES.
>> THERE WERE CASES OF IRANIAN-
AMERICANS WHO, THEIR BANK
ACCOUNTS WERE CLOSED BECAUSE
THEY WERE BELIEVED TO HAVE AT
SOME POINT BEEN IN IRAN, AND SO
THE BANKS DECIDED THAT THEY
COULDN'T TAKE ANY RISKS.
>> Reporter: JAMAL ABDI IS A
POLICY DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL
IRANIAN-AMERICAN COUNCIL IN
WASHINGTON.
SOME PEOPLE MIGHT SAY IT'S THE
LAW; IF SOMEBODY IS VIOLATING
THAT, WHETHER THEY'RE DOING IT
WILLINGLY OR UNKNOWINGLY, THOSE
ARE THE RULES.
WHY SHOULDN'T THEY BE
INVESTIGATED?
>> IT'S A FAIR POINT.
THERE ARE LAWS.
WE'RE EXPECTED TO FOLLOW THEM.
THE PROBLEM HERE IS, THE LAWS
ARE SO COMPLEX.
IT IS A SPIDER'S WEB OF LAWS.
AND SO YOU HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE
WHO ARE NOT THE INTENDED TARGETS
OF THESE SANCTIONS, WHO ARE NOT
DOING ANYTHING THAT ACTUALLY WAS
OF CONCERN REGARDING IRAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM OR
PROLIFERATION.
>> Reporter: NARGES BAJOGHLI, A
DUAL IRANIAN-AMERICAN CITIZEN
AND NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
ANTHROPOLOGIST, SAYS TOUGHER
SANCTIONS MADE N.Y.U. NERVOUS
ABOUT HER RESEARCH.
>> IT WAS KIND OF THIS SCARE
FRENZY THAT WAS GOING AROUND.
>> Reporter: IN 2013, N.Y.U.
DELAYED HER PLANNED FIELD STUDY
IN IRAN UNTIL ATTORNEYS THE
UNIVERSITY HIRED PRODUCED A
30-PAGE DOCUMENT FOR OFAC, TO
VET HER WORK, HER UPBRINGING
AND PERSONAL LIFE.
THE PROCESS TOOK NINE MONTHS.
>> IT DEFINITELY WAS BEYOND THE
PARAMETERS OF THE RESEARCH.
IT REALLY PUTS THE ONUS, I
THINK, ESPECIALLY ON DUAL
NATIONALS TO SORT OF PROVE WHERE
THEIR LOYALTIES LIE.
>> Reporter: MAHMOUD REZA BANKI,
FACING A POSSIBLE RETRIAL,
DECIDED TO SETTLE HIS PENDING
CHARGES.
HE FORFEITED $710,000 BUT GOT
TO KEEP THE MANHATTAN APARTMENT
HE BOUGHT WITH THE MONEY HIS
FAMILY INITIALLY SENT HIM.
BUT HE SAYS HIS CRIMINAL
CONVICTION HAS RUINED HIS
REPUTATION AND MADE HIM MOSTLY
UNEMPLOYABLE.
HE SUPPORTS HIMSELF DOING
FREELANCE CONSULTING IN
TECHNOLOGY AND FINANCE.
>> GOING FORWARD, MY FAMILY
INSISTS THAT I SHOULD LEAVE THE
U.S.
I WANT TO BELIEVE THAT THIS
COUNTRY, MY COUNTRY, WILL COME
THROUGH.
I CHOOSE TO MOVE AHEAD.
I CHOOSE TO LOOK FORWARD.
I CHOOSE TO REBUILD THIS LIFE.
>> Sreenivasan: HEAR MORE ABOUT
BANKI'S STORY AND SEE HIS
RECENT TED TALK ON THE EFFECTS
OF SANCTIONS ON IRANIAN-
AMERICANS.
VISIT www.pbs.org/newshour.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: A WOMAN WHO
ALLEGEDLY PROVIDED THE GUNS USED
IN THURSDAY'S MULTIPLE SHOOTING
IN HESSTON, KANSAS, IS IN
CUSTODY.
SARAH HOPKINS HAS BEEN CHARGED
WITH UNLAWFULLY TRANSFERRING TWO
WEAPONS TO CEDRIC FORD, THE MAN
WHO SHOT AND KILLED THREE PEOPLE
AT THE LAWNMOWER FACTORY WHERE
HE WORKED.
FORD ALSO WOUNDED 14 OTHER
PEOPLE BEFORE HESSTON'S POLICE
CHIEF KILLED HIM.
HOPKINS IS CHARGED WITH
PROVIDING FORD A SEMI-AUTOMATIC
RIFLE AND A HANDGUN HE WOULD
HAVE BEEN PROHIBITED FROM
BUYING BECAUSE HE WAS A
CONVICTED FELON.
AUTHORITIES SAY HOPKINS WAS
FORD'S FORMER GIRLFRIEND.
SHE FACES A MAXIMUM OF TEN YEARS
IN PRISON IF CONVICTED.
THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
AND PREVENTION SAYS NINE
PREGNANT WOMEN IN THE UNITED
STATES HAVE NOW TESTED POSITIVE
FOR THE MOSQUITO-BORN ZIKA
VIRUS.
THE C.D.C. SAYS ALL WERE
INFECTED WHILE VISITING OR
LIVING IN CARIBBEAN AND SOUTH
AMERICA COUNTRIES WITH ZIKA
OUTBREAKS.
ONE OF THE NINE WOMEN GAVE BIRTH
TO A BABY WITH MICROCEPHALY, THE
DEFECT ASSOCIATED WITH ZIKA THAT
LEAVES BABIES WITH ABNORMALLY
SMALL BRAINS AND HEADS.
THE C.D.C. IS INVESTIGATING TEN
MORE POSSIBLE CASES OF PREGNANT
U.S. TRAVELERS WITH ZIKA.
IT IS ALSO ADVISING PREGNANT
WOMEN TO CONSIDER AVOIDING GOING
TO THIS SUMMER'S OLYMPIC GAMES
IN BRAZIL, THE COUNTRY WITH THE
MOST REPORTED ZIKA CASES.
CALIFORNIA'S DEATH VALLEY IS
VERY MUCH ALIVE IN COLOR.
MORE THAN 20 SPECIES OF
WILDFLOWERS ARE IN BLOOM FOR THE
FIRST TIME IN 11 YEARS IN THE
REPUTED HOTTEST PLACE ON EARTH.
THE RARE "SUPER BLOOM" IN THE
NORMALLY BARREN LANDSCAPE
FOLLOWS HUGE RAINS IN OCTOBER,
WHEN ALMOST THREE INCHES OF RAIN
FELL IN ONE DAY-- MORE THAN
DEATH VALLEY TYPICALLY SEES IN A
WHOLE YEAR.
THE STORMS WERE TRIGGERED BY AN
EL NINO WARMING OF THE PACIFIC
OCEAN.
RECAPPING OUR TOP STORY,
HILLARY CLINTON TOLD VOTERS IN
SOUTH CAROLINA "TOMORROW THIS
CAMPAIGN GOES NATIONAL."
SHE WON THE DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY
IN SOUTH CAROLINA BY A LANDSLIDE
WITH 80% OF THE BLACK VOTE AND
75% OF THE WOMEN'S VOTE.
BEFORE FLYING TO TENNESSEE, SHE
SAID, "WE ARE NOT TAKING
ANYTHING AND WE ARE NOT TAKING
ANYONE FOR GRANTED."
FOR HIS PART, SANDERS SAID "THIS
CAMPAIGN IS JUST BEGINNING AND
AND WE WON'T STOP NOW."
HE MOVED ON TO MINNESOTA.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.